README.md, before:

# Hyperlocal Marketplace Android App

A comprehensive hyperlocal marketplace application built with Kotlin and Jetpack Compose, featuring backend integration and three distinct user roles: Customer, Seller, and Admin.

## Current Status

### Completed Features
- **Backend Integration**: Successfully connected to API gateway
- **API Services**: Retrofit interfaces for all backend endpoints
- **Data Models**: Kotlin models matching API response structure
- **Repository Pattern**: Data access layer with error handling
- **Network Configuration**: Emulator and device connectivity
- **APK Build**: 19MB debug APK generated successfully
- **Integration Testing**: Backend connectivity verified
- **Functional Testing**: **FULLY TESTED AND VALIDATED**
- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth with email/password and phone OTP
- **User Roles**: Customer, Seller, and Admin role-based navigation
- **Seller Dashboard**: Shop creation and product management
- **Admin Dashboard**: Shop approval and user management

### Testing Status: PRODUCTION READY
- **45/45 backend integration tests passed**
- **All user roles (Customer, Seller, Admin) validated**
- **End-to-end API integration confirmed**
- **Error handling and edge cases tested**
- **Performance benchmarks met**
- **Authentication flow tested**

### Ready for Enhancement
- Location-based services (API endpoints tested)
- Payment gateway integration
- Push notifications
- Image upload functionality
- Real-time order tracking

## Architecture

### Backend Integration
- **API Gateway**: Running on port 12000
- **Unified API**: Single endpoint for all services
- **Standardized Responses**: Consistent JSON format
- **Error Handling**: Proper error propagation

### Tech Stack
- **Language**: Kotlin
- **UI Framework**: Jetpack Compose with Material 3
- **Architecture**: MVVM with Repository Pattern
- **Dependency Injection**: Hilt
- **Networking**: Retrofit + OkHttp
- **Backend**: Python FastAPI gateway
- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth

### Project Structure
```
app/
├── src/main/java/com/hyperlocal/marketplace/
│   ├── config/                 # API configuration
│   ├── data/
│   │   ├── api/               # Retrofit service interfaces
│   │   ├── models/            # Data models matching API
│   │   └── repository/        # Repository implementations
│   ├── TestBackendActivity.kt # Integration testing
│   └── presentation/theme/    # UI theme components
```

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites
- Android Studio Hedgehog (2023.1.1) or later
- JDK 17 or later
- Android SDK API 34
- Python 3.8+ (for backend)

### Backend Setup
1. **Clone backend repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Vivek8968/hyperlocalbymanus.git
   cd hyperlocalbymanus
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install fastapi uvicorn
   ```

3. **Start API gateway**
   ```bash
   python api_gateway.py
   ```
   Server runs on `http://localhost:12000`

### Android Setup
1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Vivek8968/allhandvivekandroid.git
   cd allhandvivekandroid
   ```

2. **Open in Android Studio**
   - Open Android Studio
   - Select "Open an existing project"
   - Navigate to the cloned directory

3. **Configure API Connection**
   - Edit `app/src/main/java/com/hyperlocal/marketplace/config/Config.kt`
   - For emulator: `BASE_URL = "http://10.0.2.2:12000"`
   - For device: `BASE_URL = "http://YOUR_IP:12000"`

4. **Build and Run**
   ```bash
   ./gradlew assembleDebug
   ```

## Backend Integration

### API Configuration
```kotlin
object Config {
    // Backend API Configuration
    const val BASE_URL = "http://10.0.2.2:12000"  // For emulator
    // const val BASE_URL = "http://192.168.1.100:12000"  // For physical device
    
    // Feature Toggles
    const val IS_DEMO_MODE = false  // Now uses real backend
    const val ENABLE_LOCATION_SERVICES = true
    const val ENABLE_FIREBASE_AUTH = true
}
```

### Integrated Endpoints
- **Authentication**: `/auth/login`, `/auth/register`, `/auth/verify-otp`
- **Shops**: `/shops`, `/shops/{id}`, `/shops/{id}/products`
- **Catalog**: `/catalog`, `/catalog/categories`, `/products/{id}`
- **Vendor**: `/vendor/shop`, `/vendor/products`
- **Admin**: `/admin/users`, `/admin/shops`, `/admin/stats`

### API Response Format
```json
{
  "status": true,
  "message": "Success",
  "data": { ... }
}
```

## Building APK

### Quick Build
```bash
./gradlew assembleDebug
```
APK location: `app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk` (19MB)

### Automated Build
```bash
chmod +x build.sh
./build.sh
```

## Testing Backend Integration

The app includes `TestBackendActivity` that automatically tests:

1. **Login Endpoint**: Phone-based authentication
2. **Shops Endpoint**: Retrieves shop data
3. **Catalog Endpoint**: Fetches product catalog

### Test Results Display
- ✓ Login successful: User Name
- ✓ Shops loaded: X shops found  
- ✓ Catalog loaded: Y items found

### Running Integration Test
1. Install APK on device/emulator
2. Launch "Backend Test" activity
3. View real-time test results

## Authentication Flow

### Firebase Authentication
- Phone-based OTP verification
- Email/password authentication
- JWT token generation for backend API access
- Role-based access control (Customer, Seller, Admin)

### Firebase Setup Instructions
1. **Create a Firebase Project**
   - Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/)
   - Create a new project or use an existing one
   - Register your Android app with package name `com.hyperlocal.marketplace`

2. **Download google-services.json**
   - Download the `google-services.json` file
   - Place it in the app module directory (`app/`)
   - The app already includes a sample `google-services.json` file for testing

3. **Enable Authentication Methods**
   - In Firebase Console, go to Authentication > Sign-in method
   - Enable Email/Password authentication
   - Enable Phone authentication
   - Add test phone numbers for development
   
   For testing, you can use these credentials:
   - Email: `test@example.com` / Password: `password123`
   - Phone: `+1234567890` (with OTP code: `123456`)

4. **Configure SHA Certificate**
   - For debug builds: `keytool -list -v -keystore ~/.android/debug.keystore -alias androiddebugkey -storepass android -keypass android`
   - Add the SHA-1 fingerprint to your Firebase project

5. **Update Firebase Configuration (if needed)**
   - If you're using your own Firebase project, update the following files:
     - `app/google-services.json` - Replace with your own file
     - `app/src/main/res/values/strings.xml` - Update Firebase API key

### User Role Selection and Switching
After successful authentication, users can select their role:
- **Customer**: Browse shops and products
- **Seller**: Manage shop and inventory
- **Admin**: Manage platform and approve shops

#### How to Switch Roles
1. **During Registration/Login**:
   - After successful authentication, you'll be prompted to select a role
   - Choose between Customer, Seller, or Admin

2. **From Profile Screen**:
   - Navigate to Profile screen from the bottom navigation
   - Tap on "Switch Role" option
   - Select your desired role from the options

3. **Role-Specific Features**:
   - **Customer**: Access to browse shops, view products, and place orders
   - **Seller**: Access to create/manage shops and products
   - **Admin**: Access to approve shops, manage users, and view statistics

4. **Testing All Roles**:
   - You can switch between roles at any time from the Profile screen
   - Each role has a different dashboard and features
   - All role data is persisted using DataStore

## Location Services

### Shop Discovery
- Location-based shop filtering
- Distance calculation and display
- GPS integration for nearby shops

### Implementation
```kotlin
suspend fun getAllShops(
    latitude: Double? = null,
    longitude: Double? = null
): Flow<Resource<List<Shop>>>
```

## UI Components

### Current Status
- **Theme System**: Material 3 with dark/light themes
- **Test Interface**: Simple backend connectivity testing
- **Core Components**: Ready for full UI integration

### Implemented Features
- Customer shop browsing interface
- Seller dashboard for inventory management
- Admin panel for approvals and analytics

## Deployment

### Development Environment
1. Start backend: `python api_gateway.py`
2. Build Android: `./gradlew assembleDebug`
3. Install APK: `adb install app-debug.apk`

### Production Checklist
- [ ] Update API URLs to production
- [ ] Enable HTTPS and remove cleartext traffic
- [x] Configure Firebase for production
- [x] Set up proper authentication
- [x] Enable location services
- [x] Complete UI integration
- [x] Implement role-based navigation
- [x] Add seller dashboard functionality
- [x] Add admin dashboard functionality

## Current Capabilities

### Working Features
- Backend API connectivity
- Data model synchronization
- Network error handling
- APK generation and installation
- Integration testing framework
- Authentication with Firebase (Phone OTP and Email/Password)
- Role-based navigation and user role selection
- Seller dashboard with shop creation and management
- Admin dashboard with shop approval and user management
- Location-based shop discovery
- Geolocation services for nearby shops

### In Development
- Image upload functionality
- Real-time order management
- Payment gateway integration
- Push notifications
- Advanced search and filtering

## Known Issues

1. **Images**: Upload functionality in development
2. **Payment Gateway**: Not yet integrated
3. **Notifications**: Push notifications pending implementation

## Recent Updates

1. **Firebase Authentication**: Implemented OTP-based phone login and email/password login/signup
2. **User Role Selection**: Added ability to select and switch between Customer, Seller, and Admin roles
3. **Location Services**: Implemented geolocation for shop discovery
4. **Seller Dashboard**: Added shop creation and management functionality
5. **Admin Dashboard**: Added shop approval and user management functionality

## Documentation

### Key Documents
- [Backend Integration Guide](BACKEND_INTEGRATION.md) - Detailed integration docs
- [Deployment Guide](DEPLOYMENT.md) - Production deployment
- [Testing Guide](test_app.md) - Testing procedures
- [Project Summary](PROJECT_SUMMARY.md) - Complete overview

### API Documentation
- Endpoint specifications
- Request/response formats
- Authentication requirements
- Error handling patterns

## Configuration

### Environment Files
- `Config.kt`: Main API configuration
- `strings.xml`: API keys and resources
- `AndroidManifest.xml`: Permissions and activities

### Network Configuration
```xml
<!-- Allow HTTP traffic for development -->
<application android:usesCleartextTraffic="true">
```

## Contributing

### Development Workflow
1. Ensure backend is running
2. Test API connectivity
3. Make Android changes
4. Verify integration
5. Build and test APK

### Code Standards
- Follow Kotlin conventions
- Use repository pattern
- Handle network errors properly
- Document API integrations

## Support

### Troubleshooting
1. **Backend Issues**: Check API gateway logs
2. **Network Issues**: Verify IP configuration
3. **Build Issues**: Clean and rebuild project
4. **APK Issues**: Check device compatibility

### Getting Help
- Review integration documentation
- Check backend API status
- Verify network connectivity
- Test with provided test activity

## Links

- [Android Repository](https://github.com/Vivek8968/allhandvivekandroid)
- [Backend Repository](https://github.com/Vivek8968/hyperlocalbymanus)
- [API Gateway Documentation](BACKEND_INTEGRATION.md)

---

**Note**: This project demonstrates successful backend integration with a working Android APK. The foundation is complete for building the full marketplace application.

Commit message:

Update: Add APK download and installation instructions to README.md

README.md, after:

# Hyperlocal Marketplace Android App

A comprehensive hyperlocal marketplace application built with Kotlin and Jetpack Compose, featuring backend integration and three distinct user roles: Customer, Seller, and Admin.

## Current Status

### Completed Features
- **Backend Integration**: Successfully connected to API gateway
- **API Services**: Retrofit interfaces for all backend endpoints
- **Data Models**: Kotlin models matching API response structure
- **Repository Pattern**: Data access layer with error handling
- **Network Configuration**: Emulator and device connectivity
- **APK Build**: 19MB debug APK generated successfully
- **Integration Testing**: Backend connectivity verified
- **Functional Testing**: **FULLY TESTED AND VALIDATED**
- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth with email/password and phone OTP
- **User Roles**: Customer, Seller, and Admin role-based navigation
- **Seller Dashboard**: Shop creation and product management
- **Admin Dashboard**: Shop approval and user management

### Testing Status: PRODUCTION READY
- **45/45 backend integration tests passed**
- **All user roles (Customer, Seller, Admin) validated**
- **End-to-end API integration confirmed**
- **Error handling and edge cases tested**
- **Performance benchmarks met**
- **Authentication flow tested**

### Ready for Enhancement
- Location-based services (API endpoints tested)
- Payment gateway integration
- Push notifications
- Image upload functionality
- Real-time order tracking

## Architecture

### Backend Integration
- **API Gateway**: Running on port 12000
- **Unified API**: Single endpoint for all services
- **Standardized Responses**: Consistent JSON format
- **Error Handling**: Proper error propagation

### Tech Stack
- **Language**: Kotlin
- **UI Framework**: Jetpack Compose with Material 3
- **Architecture**: MVVM with Repository Pattern
- **Dependency Injection**: Hilt
- **Networking**: Retrofit + OkHttp
- **Backend**: Python FastAPI gateway
- **Authentication**: Firebase Auth

### Project Structure
```
app/
├── src/main/java/com/hyperlocal/marketplace/
│   ├── config/                 # API configuration
│   ├── data/
│   │   ├── api/               # Retrofit service interfaces
│   │   ├── models/            # Data models matching API
│   │   └── repository/        # Repository implementations
│   ├── TestBackendActivity.kt # Integration testing
│   └── presentation/theme/    # UI theme components
```

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites
- Android Studio Hedgehog (2023.1.1) or later
- JDK 17 or later
- Android SDK API 34
- Python 3.8+ (for backend)

### Backend Setup
1. **Clone backend repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Vivek8968/hyperlocalbymanus.git
   cd hyperlocalbymanus
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install fastapi uvicorn
   ```

3. **Start API gateway**
   ```bash
   python api_gateway.py
   ```
   Server runs on `http://localhost:12000`

### Android Setup
1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Vivek8968/allhandvivekandroid.git
   cd allhandvivekandroid
   ```

2. **Open in Android Studio**
   - Open Android Studio
   - Select "Open an existing project"
   - Navigate to the cloned directory

3. **Configure API Connection**
   - Edit `app/src/main/java/com/hyperlocal/marketplace/config/Config.kt`
   - For emulator: `BASE_URL = "http://10.0.2.2:12000"`
   - For device: `BASE_URL = "http://YOUR_IP:12000"`

4. **Build and Run**
   ```bash
   ./gradlew assembleDebug
   ```

## Backend Integration

### API Configuration
```kotlin
object Config {
    // Backend API Configuration
    const val BASE_URL = "http://10.0.2.2:12000"  // For emulator
    // const val BASE_URL = "http://192.168.1.100:12000"  // For physical device
    
    // Feature Toggles
    const val IS_DEMO_MODE = false  // Now uses real backend
    const val ENABLE_LOCATION_SERVICES = true
    const val ENABLE_FIREBASE_AUTH = true
}
```

### Integrated Endpoints
- **Authentication**: `/auth/login`, `/auth/register`, `/auth/verify-otp`
- **Shops**: `/shops`, `/shops/{id}`, `/shops/{id}/products`
- **Catalog**: `/catalog`, `/catalog/categories`, `/products/{id}`
- **Vendor**: `/vendor/shop`, `/vendor/products`
- **Admin**: `/admin/users`, `/admin/shops`, `/admin/stats`

### API Response Format
```json
{
  "status": true,
  "message": "Success",
  "data": { ... }
}
```

## Building APK

### Quick Build
```bash
./gradlew assembleDebug
```
APK location: `app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk` (19MB)

### Automated Build
```bash
chmod +x build.sh
./build.sh
```

### Download Pre-built APK
The latest pre-built APK is available in the repository at `app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk`. You can download it directly from GitHub or build it yourself using the instructions above.

### Installation
```bash
# Install via ADB (Android Debug Bridge)
adb install app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk

# Or install by transferring the APK to your device and opening it
```

## Testing Backend Integration

The app includes `TestBackendActivity` that automatically tests:

1. **Login Endpoint**: Phone-based authentication
2. **Shops Endpoint**: Retrieves shop data
3. **Catalog Endpoint**: Fetches product catalog

### Test Results Display
- ✓ Login successful: User Name
- ✓ Shops loaded: X shops found  
- ✓ Catalog loaded: Y items found

### Running Integration Test
1. Install APK on device/emulator
2. Launch "Backend Test" activity
3. View real-time test results

## Authentication Flow

### Firebase Authentication
- Phone-based OTP verification
- Email/password authentication
- JWT token generation for backend API access
- Role-based access control (Customer, Seller, Admin)

### Firebase Setup Instructions
1. **Create a Firebase Project**
   - Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/)
   - Create a new project or use an existing one
   - Register your Android app with package name `com.hyperlocal.marketplace`

2. **Download google-services.json**
   - Download the `google-services.json` file
   - Place it in the app module directory (`app/`)
   - The app already includes a sample `google-services.json` file for testing

3. **Enable Authentication Methods**
   - In Firebase Console, go to Authentication > Sign-in method
   - Enable Email/Password authentication
   - Enable Phone authentication
   - Add test phone numbers for development
   
   For testing, you can use these credentials:
   - Email: `test@example.com` / Password: `password123`
   - Phone: `+1234567890` (with OTP code: `123456`)

4. **Configure SHA Certificate**
   - For debug builds: `keytool -list -v -keystore ~/.android/debug.keystore -alias androiddebugkey -storepass android -keypass android`
   - Add the SHA-1 fingerprint to your Firebase project

5. **Update Firebase Configuration (if needed)**
   - If you're using your own Firebase project, update the following files:
     - `app/google-services.json` - Replace with your own file
     - `app/src/main/res/values/strings.xml` - Update Firebase API key

### User Role Selection and Switching
After successful authentication, users can select their role:
- **Customer**: Browse shops and products
- **Seller**: Manage shop and inventory
- **Admin**: Manage platform and approve shops

#### How to Switch Roles
1. **During Registration/Login**:
   - After successful authentication, you'll be prompted to select a role
   - Choose between Customer, Seller, or Admin

2. **From Profile Screen**:
   - Navigate to Profile screen from the bottom navigation
   - Tap on "Switch Role" option
   - Select your desired role from the options

3. **Role-Specific Features**:
   - **Customer**: Access to browse shops, view products, and place orders
   - **Seller**: Access to create/manage shops and products
   - **Admin**: Access to approve shops, manage users, and view statistics

4. **Testing All Roles**:
   - You can switch between roles at any time from the Profile screen
   - Each role has a different dashboard and features
   - All role data is persisted using DataStore

## Location Services

### Shop Discovery
- Location-based shop filtering
- Distance calculation and display
- GPS integration for nearby shops

### Implementation
```kotlin
suspend fun getAllShops(
    latitude: Double? = null,
    longitude: Double? = null
): Flow<Resource<List<Shop>>>
```

## UI Components

### Current Status
- **Theme System**: Material 3 with dark/light themes
- **Test Interface**: Simple backend connectivity testing
- **Core Components**: Ready for full UI integration

### Implemented Features
- Customer shop browsing interface
- Seller dashboard for inventory management
- Admin panel for approvals and analytics

## Deployment

### Development Environment
1. Start backend: `python api_gateway.py`
2. Build Android: `./gradlew assembleDebug`
3. Install APK: `adb install app-debug.apk`

### Production Checklist
- [ ] Update API URLs to production
- [ ] Enable HTTPS and remove cleartext traffic
- [x] Configure Firebase for production
- [x] Set up proper authentication
- [x] Enable location services
- [x] Complete UI integration
- [x] Implement role-based navigation
- [x] Add seller dashboard functionality
- [x] Add admin dashboard functionality

## Current Capabilities

### Working Features
- Backend API connectivity
- Data model synchronization
- Network error handling
- APK generation and installation
- Integration testing framework
- Authentication with Firebase (Phone OTP and Email/Password)
- Role-based navigation and user role selection
- Seller dashboard with shop creation and management
- Admin dashboard with shop approval and user management
- Location-based shop discovery
- Geolocation services for nearby shops

### In Development
- Image upload functionality
- Real-time order management
- Payment gateway integration
- Push notifications
- Advanced search and filtering

## Known Issues

1. **Images**: Upload functionality in development
2. **Payment Gateway**: Not yet integrated
3. **Notifications**: Push notifications pending implementation

## Recent Updates

1. **Firebase Authentication**: Implemented OTP-based phone login and email/password login/signup
2. **User Role Selection**: Added ability to select and switch between Customer, Seller, and Admin roles
3. **Location Services**: Implemented geolocation for shop discovery
4. **Seller Dashboard**: Added shop creation and management functionality
5. **Admin Dashboard**: Added shop approval and user management functionality

## Documentation

### Key Documents
- [Backend Integration Guide](BACKEND_INTEGRATION.md) - Detailed integration docs
- [Deployment Guide](DEPLOYMENT.md) - Production deployment
- [Testing Guide](test_app.md) - Testing procedures
- [Project Summary](PROJECT_SUMMARY.md) - Complete overview

### API Documentation
- Endpoint specifications
- Request/response formats
- Authentication requirements
- Error handling patterns

## Configuration

### Environment Files
- `Config.kt`: Main API configuration
- `strings.xml`: API keys and resources
- `AndroidManifest.xml`: Permissions and activities

### Network Configuration
```xml
<!-- Allow HTTP traffic for development -->
<application android:usesCleartextTraffic="true">
```

## Contributing

### Development Workflow
1. Ensure backend is running
2. Test API connectivity
3. Make Android changes
4. Verify integration
5. Build and test APK

### Code Standards
- Follow Kotlin conventions
- Use repository pattern
- Handle network errors properly
- Document API integrations

## Support

### Troubleshooting
1. **Backend Issues**: Check API gateway logs
2. **Network Issues**: Verify IP configuration
3. **Build Issues**: Clean and rebuild project
4. **APK Issues**: Check device compatibility

### Getting Help
- Review integration documentation
- Check backend API status
- Verify network connectivity
- Test with provided test activity

## Links

- [Android Repository](https://github.com/Vivek8968/allhandvivekandroid)
- [Backend Repository](https://github.com/Vivek8968/hyperlocalbymanus)
- [API Gateway Documentation](BACKEND_INTEGRATION.md)

---

**Note**: This project demonstrates successful backend integration with a working Android APK. The foundation is complete for building the full marketplace application.
